---
title: Many Worlds Game/version/2
tags:
categories:
date: 2022-05-29
lastMod: 2022-05-29
---
Object of the game:
  + Work together to collectively tell the story of your civilization.

  + Also, you're trying to fulfil your own destiny

  + Meet the condition on your role card. Fulfil your destiny!

  + ALSO tell the story of your civilization!

Components

  + Cards

    + World Deck - _Cards that compose elements of the current world_

    + Podsibility Decks - _Differeent potential elements of your world_

      + Education

        + Literacy

        + Writing

        + Language

        + Primary Education

        + College

      + Agriculture

        + Farming

        + Meat Industry

      + Urban

        + Sanitation

      + Science

        + Philosophy

        + Math

        + Physics

        + Biology

        + Chemistry

      + Conflict

        + War

        + Crime

        + Nuclear Weapons

        + 

      + Environment

        + 

      + Economic

        + Currency

        + Finance

        + Trade

        + Corporations

        + Consumerism

      + Material
        + Mining

        + Manufacturing

        + Deforestation

      + Technology

        + Writing

        + Transportation

        + Computation

        + Communications

      + Culture

        + Art

        + Music

      + Population

        + Youth

        + Elders

      + Politics

        + Government

          + Democracy

          + Communism

          + Monarchy

          + Facism

        + Laws

    + Trends - _Changes that will happen in your world_
      + Transformation

        + Exchange two cards of this type for other cards of this type or another type

      + Growth

        + +1 card of this type

      + Renissance

        + +1 cards of this type and 1 of a different type

      + Boom

        + +2 cards of this type

      + Rebirth

        + +1 card of this type

      + Stagnation

        + -1 card of this type

      + Decline

        + -1 card of this type

      + Revolution

        + Exchange a card of a different type with another card of this type.

      + Evolution

        + Exchange one card of this type for another card of this type

      + Collapse

        + Remove all other cards of this type

      + Downturn

        + -2 cards of this type

      + Crash

        + Remove this card

    + Roles -  _who you are_

      + Engineer

        + Urban, Material, Technology

      + Revolutionary

        + Play the revolution on a Politics card

      + Visionary

        + Play Transformation, renisance and revoltuion in your lifetime

      + Healer

        + the world contains no confflict cards and no material cards

      + Artiste

        + The world contains all culture cards

      + Maker

        + The world contains all technology cards

      + Dictator

        + The world contains all conflict cards and either fascism or monarcy

      + Tycoon

        + All economic cards

      + Scientist

        + all science cards

Setup

  + Shuffle the role decks and trend decks

  + Decide together what your world and Civliization consist of

    + draw that many cards from the posibilitiy decks

Gameplay
  + The game consists of rounds. Each round is an ERA of Time.

  + Each round consists of 3 hands,  envisioning, an adjusting, an accounting and a clean-up

    + Hands

      + In a hand one player draws 3 cards from the world deck and another draws 3 cards from the trend deck.

      + The player with the world cards plays one first, and the player with the trend cards plays one next to it second. Wait to resolve any effects

      + Shuffle the remaining cards back into the decks they came from and switch.

      + Repeat this process until there are 3 pairs of cards. Make sure to alternate who plays the world cards.

      + If there are an even number of players, play the final round blind- pick and reveal cards simultaneuously.

    + Envisioning

      + In envisioning, work collaboratively to tell the story of this era according to the changes in the world that have just been articulated.

      + Feel free to use the following questions:

        + What is the flavor of this era?

        + The name of this era?

        + Who were the major actors in this era?

        + What were the major events of this era?

        + What do the people of this time hope for?

    + Adjusting

      + Now resolve any effects on trend cards and apply them to their corresponding world card

    + Accounting

      + If at the end of this phase, the condition on your role has been satesfied, reveal it and end the game. Or scoe a point

      + Otherwise, If three rounds have passed discard your role and draw a new one.

      + Shuffle the played cards back into their respective decks

  + 
