---
title: Many Worlds Game/version/3
tags:
categories:
date: 2022-05-29
lastMod: 2022-05-29
---


Object of the game:


Components

  + Cards

    + World Deck - *Cards that compose elements of the current world*

    + Posibility Decks - *Differeent potential elements of your world*

      + **Tags**

        + Technology, Population, Agriculture, Environment, Urbanization, Politics, Complex, Simple, Resources, Pollution, Conflict, Economic

      + Writing

        + Technology, Education, Culture

      + Literacy

        + Writing

        + Culture, Education

      + Formalized Education

        + Education, population

      + Childhood

        + population, leisure

      + Farming

        + Technology, Agriculture, Food

      + Animal Husbandry

        + Agriculture

        + Food, Pollution

      + Monocropping

        + Technology

        + Agriculture

      + Philosophy

        + Science, Culture

      + Math

        + Science, Technology

      + Physics

        + Science, Math, Complex

      + Biology

        + Science, Life

      + Chemistry

        + Science

      + War

        + Conflict, Population, Politics,

      + Crime

        + Weapons

        + Conflict, Instability

      + Weapons

        + Technology

        + Conflict, Power, Instability

      + Currency

        + Economy, Trade, Power

      + Finance

        + Economy, Currency, Complex

      + Trade

        + Ecnonomy

      + Corporations

        + Economy, Finance, Complex

      + Consumerism

        + Economy, Currency, Complex, Pollution

      + Mining

        + Resources, Pollution

      + Manufacturing

        + Resources, Pollution, Complex, Energy

      + Lumber industry

        + Resources, Pollution, Energy

      + Fossil Fuels

        + Resources, Energy, Pollution

      + Personal Transportation

        + Energy, Complexity, Urbaization, Leisure, Technology

      + Long Distance Transportation

        + Trade, Energy, Population, Complexity

      + Art

      + **Old Categories**

        + Urban

          + Sanitation

        + Technology

          + Transportation

          + Computation

          + Communications

        + Culture

          + Art

          + Music

        + Population

          + Youth

          + Elders

        + Politics

          + Government

            + Democracy

            + Communism

            + Monarchy

            + Facism

          + Laws

    + Roles -  *who you are*

      + Engineer

        + Urban, Material, Technology

      + Revolutionary

        + Play the revolution on a Politics card

      + Visionary

        + Play Transformation, renisance and revoltuion in your lifetime

      + Healer

        + the world contains no confflict cards and no material cards

      + Artiste

        + The world contains all culture cards

      + Maker

        + The world contains all technology cards

      + Dictator

        + The world contains all conflict cards and either fascism or monarcy

      + Tycoon

        + All economic cards

      + Scientist

        + all science cards

    + Influence Tokens

      + 3 positive and 3 negative per player

    + 

Setup and  [Many Worlds Game/WorldBuilding]({{< ref "Many Worlds Game/WorldBuilding" >}})
  + Decide on a genre- cartoon, historical, sci-fi, post-appocalypse, fantasy

  + Draw X number of random cards.

    + If there are 2 or more complexity cards your old?

  + Initial Questions

    + Are you a young, midlle age or old civilizaiton?

    + Of all the cards picked which ones are values most important to your civilization?

      + Pick one of these values and imagine a cultural celebration of it?

    + Pick a biome.

    + Do you have neighbors? Friends? Enemies?

    + Pick a challenge
      + Political instability, Inequality, External threat, deteriorating cultural values

        + Maybe these are cards with effects

Gameplay

  + The game consists of rounds. Each round is an ERA of Time.

  + Each round consists of the changes, an envisioning, an adjusting, an accounting and a clean-up

    + The Changes

      + In "The Changes" one player draws 3 cards from the world deck and then picks one of those cards to play face up in front of the whole group.

      + They then shuffle the other two cards back into the deck and the next player repeats the process.

      + Repeat this until there are 3 cards face up on the table.

      + Then starting with the first card and working your way down, each player secretly bids a number of influence tokens per card. Reveal all the influence tokens at one and calculate the net effect and determine the dominant faction

        + for example, for the first card, Tom bids 3 positivive influnce cards, sharon bids 2 negative influnce tokens and, sam bids 2 negative influence tokens. This adds up to - 1 influnce. The players who played the negative influnce tokens become the dominant faction.

      + The winning amount faction collaborates on what happens and pick the cards. The losing faction describes an unintended consequence and adjusts trackers depending on number of cubes spent

      + 

    + Envisioning

      + In envisioning, work collaboratively to tell the story of this era according to the changes in the world that have just been articulated.

      + Feel free to use the following questions:

        + What is the flavor of this era?

        + The name of this era?

        + Who were the major actors in this era?

        + What were the major events of this era?

        + What do the people of this time hope for?

    + Adjusting

      + Now resolve any effects on trend cards and apply them to their corresponding world card

    + Accounting

      + If at the end of this phase, the condition on your role has been satesfied, reveal it and end the game. Or scoe a point

      + Otherwise, If three rounds have passed discard your role and draw a new one.

      + Shuffle the played cards back into their respective decks

  + 

Old Ideas
  + Everyone gets 6 cubes- 3 positive 3 negative and can get

    + There are Event Slots:

      + `> -3` Collapse

      + `< 3` Revolution

    + These numbers are dependent on player count.

  + Card Structure

    + Each card has

      + Conditions - stuff that is reqquired to make it

      + Effects - stuff that it produces.

    + Results of votes can influence either.

    + Cards enter the possibility pool if the world deck satesfies it's condition

    + At the start of the game remove any cards from the deck that have conditions
