---
title: Many Worlds Game/version/5
subtitle: Rock Gods
tags:
categories:
date: 2022-05-29
lastMod: 2022-05-29
---
[Playingcards.io](https://playingcards.io/kzsttr)

Steps

Components

  + Trackers

  + Map

  + Decks

  + Age sheet

Rules
collapsed:: false

  + [Many Worlds Game/WorldBuilding]({{< ref "Many Worlds Game/WorldBuilding" >}})


    + In this game we will work together to tell the story of a civilization over a long period of time.

      + What is a Civilization? Hard to tell without being racist! Suffice it so say we are telling the story of ideas, systems, events, people and things that connect a large group of humans over a long period of time.
    + Here are some things we know about our world

      + It's on a place just like Earth but is not Earth

      + We are starting out a long time ago.

    + Now let's work together to fill in the blanks.

    + What is the landscape we live in?

    + Are we old or new? have we been here a long time?

    + Are we a new group or are we congeald

    + Do we have any neighbors, friends or enemies?

    + What brought us all together in the first place? What keeps us all together?

    + What are some good things about living in our society?
    + What could be better?

    + What are we proud of?

    + What are we ashamed of?

    + What is something our Civilization struggles with?

    + Draw a map
      + Draw any natural boundaries or features

      + Draw any significant locations

        + Where are decisions made?

        + Where are celebrations held?

        + Where do people gather?

        + Celebrate

    + Draw a location on your map

    + Name 3 different groups within our civilization

      + add them to the map

    + What Do you value?

      + Freedom

      + Equality

      + Progress

      + Knowledge

      + Power

      + Worship

      + Nature

      + Individuality

    + For each value add a location to the map

    + Pick spots on the trackers that add up to ___.

  + Use a board with the following trackers


    + Small - Big

      + number of votes

    + Centralized - Decentralized

      + How to vote

    + Nature - Tech

      + Which possible cards

    + Stagnant - Rapid

      + Number of cards picked

    + Simple - Complex

      + Number of Cards to vote on

    + 

  + Draw cards  from each of the corresponding decks as indicated by the tracker

  + The Object of the Game

    + To work together discover the shape of our society

    + To feel it's changes over time

  + Groups - characters and coalitions

  + Permanents

    + permanents are lasting changes made to the world

    + Write the name of the permanent and a

  + Draw a private role

    + Goals are
