---
title: Many Worlds Game/version/6
subtitle: Dangerous Dice
tags:
categories:
date: 2022-05-29
lastMod: 2022-05-29
---
Object of the Game:

  + To be the first player to score 6 points

Setup

  + Every player gets 3 objective cards

  + Randomly Place the 5 cubes in the middle of the trackers

Board

  + [[draws/2022-02-07-22-31-00.excalidraw]]

  + 

Game Play consists of generations which are comprised of rounds which are comprised of turns

  + There are 3 rounds in a generation

  + Rounds

    + Each round players take a turn and may move one cube to the left or the right

      + above or below?

    + At the end of the round collectively roll the number of dice per color equal to the spot on the tracker

      + If there are any dice in the current round spot on the generation track, add them to the dice pool now.

      + Any 5 or 6 is a failure.

        + 5s may be deferred to a future generation.

          + Place the dice in the current round spot on the generation track

        + If a 5 is not deferred or a six is rolled, immediately move the matching tracker back to the center of the track

      + If a tracker remains on the outermost space of any track, players may score one card in their hands with a matching condition for 1 point. If two conditions are met they may score their card for 3 points.

        + Discard the card.

    + Then move the generation tracker down one space. If it reaches the bottom, move it to the top and begin a new generation

  + Generation

    + After 3 eras there's a generational shift

    + All Players draw a new objective. If they would have more than 3 cards, discard one.

    + A new generation emerges (old)

      + At the end of each round discard the one on the left, draw a new one and slide it down
