---
title: Many Worlds Game/version/7
tags:
categories:
date: 2022-05-29
lastMod: 2022-05-29
---
Object of the game:

  + The Object of the Game

    + To work together discover the shape of our society

    + To feel it's changes over time

  + Complete Three Objectives

Types of Things

  + Groups - characters and coalitions

  + Permanents

    + permanents are lasting changes made to the world. They can be objects or plavces

  + Sigils

    + Pick values for your civilization, then pick sigils that match them

      + Things you value, things you don't

    + your ROLE just has sigils

      + you attach it to a group upon revealing it

    + sigils meanings can change, but they are connected to each other in different relations

    + permanents and groups are tagged with different sigils

    + Sigils are DIFFERENT from trackers

Setup

  + [Many Worlds Game/WorldBuilding]({{< ref "Many Worlds Game/WorldBuilding" >}})

    + Introduction and WorldBuilding


      + In this game we will work together to tell the story of a civilization over a long period of time.

        + What is a Civilization? Hard to tell without being racist! Suffice it so say we are telling the story of ideas, systems, events, people and things that connect a large group of humans over a long period of time.

      + What's a type of world, society, or biome that's been on your mind lately?

        + Somehthing that feels fun

      + What is the landscape we live in?

      + Are we old or new? have we been here a long time?

      + Do we have any neighbors, friends or enemies?

      + What brought us all together in the first place? What keeps us all together?

      + What  are 3 key values in our society? Things we hold as very important?

        + Freedom

        + Equality

        + Progress

        + Knowledge

        + Power

        + Worship

        + Nature

        + Individuality

      + What are 3 Vices. Things we struggle with. Problems or threats.

  + Make at least 9 permanents man with at least

    + 2 People

    + 2 Places

    + 2 Things

    + And 12 tokens spilt across 9 permanents

      + no more than 3 values per card

  + Set up six trackers with each token placed at the 2 space

Game Play

  + Game Play consists of generations which are comprised of rounds which are comprised of turns

    + There are 3 rounds in a generation

    + Rounds

      + Each round players take a turn and draw 3 cards from the deck and play one.

      + Play the card and answer the prompt on the card and adjust any permanents, values.

      + At the end of the turn slide the value on the tracker to match the numebr of values currently in play.

      + **Chaos**

        + If there are any dice in the current round spot on the generation track, add them to the dice pool now.

        + At the end of the round if dice need to be rolled, go around the table again and each player selects one of the values being rolled for. simultaneously and then then in turn order resolve each row.

          + Any 5 or 6 is a failure.

            + 5s may be deferred to a future generation.

              + Place the dice in the current round spot on the generation track

            + If a 5 is not deferred or a six is rolled, immediately move the matching tracker back to the center of the track and either add or remove values to permanents accordingly. Make sure to tell the story!

      + Collapse

        + If 3 values fail remove those three values from the game- remove all tokens of that value and transform any of their permanents. Discard all matching objectives and.

        + In the next generation, at the end of each era add a new value.

      + Score cards now

      + Supremacy

        + If there is a supremacy, the player who scored the card may transform any permanents with the value (they may choose to remove corresponding value tokens but may not change any other tokens on the transformed cards)

        + They may aditionally change the definition of the value itself as it takes on new historical context

      + Elimination

        + If a value is eliminated, remove it from the tracker. All players with a rolle withthe matching value discard and draw an new one?

        + Player may create a new value- pick a new token, shuffle in it's objectives and add it to two permanents.

      + Then move the generation tracker down one space. If it reaches the bottom, move it to the top and begin a new generation

    + Generation

      + After 3 eras there's a generational shift

      + All Players draw a new objective. If they would have more than 2 cards, discard one.

Scratch

  + A new generation emerges (old)

    + At the end of each round discard the one on the left, draw a new one and slide it down

  + Types of objectives:

    + Dominance:

      + Eliminate your opposite

    + Hierarchy

      + Get your permanent to the top

    + Network

      + Make your permanent most connected

  + Cards

    + Add tokens

    + swap tokens

    + combine

    + remove

  + Types of objective

    + All one

    + Balance of top three

    + None of one

    + Total collapse

  + Social Structure

    + Values are interlinked.

    + They can have different spatial relationships

      + Network

      + Hierarcchy

      + Duality

      + Anarchy?

        + Or perhaps collapse is a social structure collapse ie destroy all shape

    + Values can be

      + connected

      + dependent

      + opposed

    + Perhaps different social structures have different role objectives

      + ie an opositional structure is about defeating your opposite

      + A hierarchal is about getting yours on top

      + A network is about ____

        + getting yours very connected

    + Value/social structure is almost a meta level
    + Tokens are placed on permanents

  + Roles are attempting to complete value opjectives

    + Eliminate all permanents with opposed values

    + have your value be the most prevalent



Notes #playtest [[2022-02-12]]

  + Starting is still kind of weird...

  + Picking three valueswas a little muddy

  + Making perms was a little tough- ie maybe if it was not all at once

  + No difference between places or things... like have cards that are different

  + not paper tokens

  + "Things" were not automatically thought of

    + The category is a little vague...

    + Maybe it's like at least two and then disperse or make more.

  + Maybe transform is too vague

  + Not clear that places and people and are different

  + But was caught....

  + Did values have to connect to cards?

  + Want some sort of sheet

  + 9 is a lot of things...

  + No deisre to change names?

  + "new shared permanent"

    + also unclear what

  + Colors are a lot.....

  + Just generally hone in on

  + Transform is a little OP

  + 6 is a lot

  + Still pretty tit for tat.

  + And I wonder what you do during other people's  turns

  + sustaind*

  + I kind of want changes to mechanically build off of each other

  + Collapsing was undercutting things.......

  + No tokens

  + A social barrier gives way to increased prosperity....

  + I want the age to turn faster

  + Katherine kept getting hosed by lack of elimination choices. Not enough removes

  + And I sort of wanted more consequences. More cause and effect from the values

  + Maybe you have a hand of cards and you can play them whenevs?

  + tripple down on arrogance

  + ---

  + **Feedback**

    + [[Many Worlds Game/Changes to Try]]
      + Unintended consequences
        + Once per round players may create an unintended consequence after a card has been played.

        + After a player tells the story of a card you may use a consequence to tell the story of an unintended consequence of that action. Add, remove or swap 1 value on any permanent that shares a value with the card that was jsut adjusted.

      + Acts of god or random badstuff
        + Crazy shakeup

        + round two

        + ONLY save one location

        + vote on acts of god

        + Cards that just trigger

      + Balance the deck

        + Match flavor text to cards

        + balance cards

      + Clarify card abilities

        + Transform means one in one out

          + maybe another word for a big transform

        + Symbols for actions

      + Something that fixes cards permanently

      + Not influencing other people's turns

      + Bumping and expanding objectives

        + Another way to get points

        + Other objectives too.

        + Points for other permanents

        + Scoring

          + maybe objectives are scored differently

          + more objectives

        + End game/mid-game
          + Long term goals and little goals

        + Balance Elimination and Supremacy

    + Maybe there are cards that effect the dice
      + adding dice or eliminating dice

    + Narrative was fun

    + Either or objectives?

    + Dice thing was a little weird

    + Yes and even more explicit

    + RPG part worked because of objectives

    + Mechanical thing of visuals and

    + Colors as a secondary tracker is pink ahead of yellow

    + Running out of tokens could trigger

    + 

    + 

  + 

  + 
