---
title: Many Worlds Game/version/8
tags:
categories:
date: 2022-05-29
lastMod: 2022-05-29
---
The Object of the Game

  + To work together discover the shape of our society

  + To feel it's changes over time

  + Score the most points

Terminology

  + Permanents

    + permanents are lasting changes made to the world. They can be

      + People

      + Places

      + Things

    + They can have no more than 3 values attached to them

  + Values

    + Concepts/themes/ideas that motivate and drive your society

Setup

  + [Many Worlds Game/WorldBuilding]({{< ref "Many Worlds Game/WorldBuilding" >}})

    + Introduction and WorldBuilding


      + In this game we will work together to tell the story of a civilization over a long period of time.

        + we are telling the story of ideas, systems, events, people and things that connect a large group of humans over a long period of time.

        + Don't have to pick

      + What's a type of world, society, or biome that's been on your mind lately?

        + Somehthing that feels fun

      + What is the landscape we live in?

      + Are we old or new? have we been here a long time?

      + Do we have any neighbors, friends or enemies?

      + What brought us all together in the first place? What keeps us all together?

    + Values

      + What  are 3 key values in our society? Things we hold as very important?

        + Freedom

        + Equality

        + Progress

        + Knowledge

        + Power

        + Worship

        + Nature

        + Individuality

      + What are 2 Vices. Things we struggle with. Problems or threats.
  + Permanents

    + 2 People

    + 2 Places

    + 2 Things

    + And 10 tokens spilt across the permanents

      + no more than 3 values per card

      + Every card needs one

  + Remaining

    + Set up 5 tokens on the tracker with each token placed at the 2 space.

    + Draw a hand of 3 objectives.

    + 

Game Play

  + Game Play consists of generations which are comprised of rounds which are comprised of turns

    + There are 3 rounds in a generation

    + Rounds

      + Each round players take a turn and draw 2 cards from the deck and play one.

      + **Card Actions**

        + Create- make a new permanent. Add 1 value to it.

        + Remove- remove a permanent and any associated values

          + a value- if there are no values left on the card, remove the card

        + Transform- The permanent undergoes raadical change. Adjust the text of the permanent however you like and add, remove or swap up to 2 values.

        + Add- a value up to three

        + Swap- exchange one value on the card for another

      + Play the card and answer the prompt on the card and adjust any permanents, values.

      + Unintended consequences


      + Unintended consequences

        + Once per round you may create an unintended consequence.

        + After a player tells the story of a card you may use a consequence to tell the story of an unintended consequence of that actione. Add, remove or swap 1 value on any permanent that shares a value with the card that was jsut adjusted.

      + At the end of the turn slide the value on the tracker to match the numebr of values currently in play.

      + **Chaos**

        + If there are any dice in the current round spot on the generation track, add them to the dice pool now.

        + At the end of the round if dice need to be rolled, go around the table again and each player selects one of the values being rolled for. simultaneously and then then in turn order resolve each row.

          + Any 5 or 6 is a failure.

            + 5s may be deferred to a future generation.

              + Place the dice in the current round spot on the generation track

            + If a 5 is not deferred or a six is rolled, immediately move the matching tracker back to the center of the track and either add or remove values to permanents accordingly. Make sure to tell the story!

      + Collapse

        + If 3 values fail remove those three values from the game- remove all tokens of that value and transform any of their permanents. Discard all matching objectives and.

        + In the next generation, at the end of each era add a new value.

      + Score cards now

      + Supremacy

        + If there is a supremacy, the player who scored the card may transform any permanents with the value (they may choose to remove corresponding value tokens but may not change any other tokens on the transformed cards)

        + They may aditionally change the definition of the value itself as it takes on new historical context

      + Elimination

        + If a value is eliminated, remove it from the tracker. All players with a rolle withthe matching value discard and draw an new one?

        + Player may create a new value- pick a new token, shuffle in it's objectives and add it to two permanents.

      + Then move the generation tracker down one space. If it reaches the bottom, move it to the top and begin a new generation

    + Generation

      + After 3 eras there's a generational shift

      + All Players draw a new objective. If they would have more than 2 cards, discard one.





#playtest [[2022-02-16]]

  + This was a little harder for folks to break into.

  + Seemed hard to get this group to start storytelling

  + Values wound up being a little vague

    + Droughts....

    + Distrust of power

  + Tokens at the start should just be one at a time

  + Swap multiple was kind of confusing

  + Clarity on places things and groups in cards

  + A group and a place change each other.

  + The cards were actually maybe a little too vague....

    + not as charged language as before.

  + Feedback

    + Maybe draw objectives to get into it

    + How does a round conclude

    + What was a thing and a person and a

    + Dice elsewhere in the game

    + Piles for token placement

    + Dave wanted to get attached to characters

      + Goals got in the way

      + Attaching to characters and things

      + Enshrine

      + Or bring back

    + Who "we are"

    + Nomic gameplay- as values

    + More expansion

    + **Clarify Big Acts**
      + What is an era?

      + How does the game end

      + A clearer end condition

        + How does that a round

      + Eras were a little confusing

    + Characters with alegiances

    + Allegiances to things

      + Can you have powers

  + [[Many Worlds Game/Changes to Try]]
    + maybe there are key questions for values
      + How are you organized?

      + What is the source of your strength?

      + Specific things some how......

    + Flexible objectives
      + Secret advocating
        + Pick a character secretly or a thing secretly and then that's the objective

        + or pick values to go for secretly

        + Other ways to get points could be

          + creating characters

        + Picking charascter

          + secret objectives you decide

      + laminated sheet
      + Card draft?
    + action point system
      + narrative cards and then you can do things on your turn

      + certain number of actions

    + Tokens that just count themselves