---
title: Many Worlds Game/version/9
tags:
categories:
date: 2022-05-29
lastMod: 2022-05-29
---
# Setup

  + ## Introduction and World Building for a NEW Game

    + ### World Building
      + In this game you are all historians working together to tell the story of an imaginary civilization from somewhere else in time and space.

        + What is a Civilization? It is hard to say without being problematic! But know that you are telling the story of ideas, systems, events, people and things that connect a large group of humans over a long period of time.

      + Let's start with something to get you all on the same page.
        + Each player name a world a type of world, society, or biome that's been on your mind lately.

          + Something that feels like it could be a fun world to dive into Could be inspired by history or media.

        + Try to find commonalities and by the end of a brief discussion, come to consensus on a type of world you all wish to explore together.

      + Now answer the questions on the Civilization Sheet.

    + ### Civilization Sheet

      + What sort of environment does this Civilization exist in?
      + Values- answer the the questions with 1-2 words and choose a token to represent that value.
        + What **Unites** this society? What brings people together?
          + _Laws, Beliefs, Mythology, Trade, History_
        + What **Powers** this society? What motivates people to take action?
          + _Economy, Fame, Generosity, Communal Support, Centralized Power_
        + What is this society **in Service** of? What do it's members strive for?
          + _Liberty, Growth, Stewardship, Knowledge_
        + What **Divides** this society? What separates its members?
          + _Inequality, Partisanship, Greed_
        + What **Threatens** this society? What are it's members afraid of?
          + _Anarchy, Violence, Enemies, Capitalism_
        + What is a **negative side-effect** this society produces? What do its members have to live with?
          + _Pollution, Misinformation,  Bias_
      + What is the Name of this civilization?
    + ### Permanent Creation

      + # Terminology


      + Take turns creating permanents (either groups, places or things) and they attach one value to the permanent by placing a token on the card. Make sure to explain how the permanent is connected to the value.

      + There must be at least


        + 2 Groups

        + 2 Places

        + 2 Things

      + After there are these six permanents, players may either continue to create permanents or place the remaining values on the existing permanents.


        + Permanents must have

          + no more than 3 values per card

          + at least one value per card.

      + When all 12 values (2 of each type) have been placed, continue on to **remaining setup**.

  + ## Introduction for a CONTINUATION

    + _Setup_

      + Erase two values and two permanents

    + In this game you are all historians working together to tell the story of an imaginary civilization from somewhere else in time and space.

    + This is the historical record, but it's incomplete.

    + Questions

      + What sort of world does this remind you of?

      + What questions do you have about this world?

      + What do you think these things are?

        + Missing values

        + Empty permanents

    + Work to dissect the historical record and continue the narrative.

  + ## Remaining Setup


    + Set up 5 tokens on the tracker with each token placed at the 2 space.

    + Draw a hand of 3 objectives.

  + # The Object of the Game
    + To work together to write the history of this Civilization with all of it's radical changes.

    + But history is not written in a vacuum and is certainly not objective!

    + Each of you also have personal historical agendas and are are striving to write the history of this Civilization to reflect your own values.

    + Work to have the biggest impact on the Historical Narrative- achieving your private objectives allows you to have a greater voice in the story of this civilization and the player who has the completed the most private objectives by the end of this Generation will become the most Influential Historian.

  + # Terminology
    + ## Permanents

      + Permanents are lasting changes made to the world. They can be
        + Groups -  Configurations of People. Classes, Families, organizations etc.

        + Places - Places of Historical Significance.

        + Things - Objects, Inventions, Systems, Events, Ideas, Trends etc.

      + They can have no more than 3 Values attached to them at any given time.

      + If a permanent has no values attached to it, it is destroyed.

    + ## Values

      + Concepts/themes/ideas that motivate and drive this Civilization. They must be encapsulated in 1-2 words and always have a token associated with them.

# Game Play

  + Game Play consists of generations which are comprised of rounds which are comprised of turns.

  + There are 3 rounds in a generation

  + ## Rounds

    + Each round players take a turn and draw 2 cards from the deck and play one.

    + **Card Actions**

      + Create- make a new permanent. Add 1 value to it.

      + Remove- remove a permanent and any associated values

        + Remove a value- if there are no values left on the card, remove the card

      + Transform- The permanent undergoes raadical change. Adjust the text of the permanent however you like and add, remove or swap a value.

      + Add- a value up to three.

      + Swap- exchange one value on the card for another

    + Play the card and answer the prompt on the card and adjust any permanents, values.

    + **Unintended consequences**

      + Once per round players may create an unintended consequence after a card has been played.

      + After a player tells the story of a card you may use a consequence to tell the story of an unintended consequence of that action. Add, remove or swap 1 value on any permanent that shares a value with the card that was jsut adjusted.

    + At the end of the turn slide the value on the tracker to match the numebr of values currently in play.

  + ## End of the Round

    + ### Chaos


      + If there are any dice in the current round spot on the generation track, add them to the dice pool now.

      + Additionally, add dice to the dice pool per dice icon per token in the corresponding columns on the tracker sheets.

        + Any 5 or 6 is a failure.

          + 5s may be deferred to a future generation.

            + Place the dice in the current round spot on the generation track

          + If a 5 is not deferred or a six is rolled a value must "fail". Each 5 or 6 results in one failure.

            + If players agree on a value to adjust, adjust that value.

            + If there is any disagreement, each player individually nominates on value per failure. Duplicates

            + immediately move the matching tracker back one space towards the center of the track and either add or remove values to permanents accordingly. Make sure to tell the story!

    + ### Collapse


      + If 3 values fail remove those three values from the game- remove all tokens of that value and transform any of their permanents. Erase the definition of that value from the tracker.

      + During the next round, instead of taking an action the active player may redefine an empty value and place value tokens on two permanents.

      + In the next generation, at the end of each era add a new value.

    + If at this point any personal objectives can be scored, do so now. All players reveal objectives and score them in turn order. If multiple objectives are revealed, all are scored and their effects are carried out even if the effects of one would undo the conditions for the others.

    + Players draw an objective card and discard down to 3 objectives.

    + Then move the generation tracker down one space. If it reaches the bottom, the generation has ended

  + ## Generations

    + After 3 eras there's a generational shift.

    + The player with the most scored personal objectives is the most Influential Historian.


